A new "Start here" page, update javadoc hrefs, misc other changes (#338)
jspecify/jspecify: docs/src/pages/start-here.md

---
title: Start Here
---

> # Start here

Reviewer: Are we supposed to do this in addition to the title above? I don't see that in `about-us.md`.

Author: It seems that spec and user-guide do it, and I'm the one who forgot it on about-us.  It might just set the page title for purposes of bookmarks and stuff. Will fix.

Author: wait, no, user-guide is the one that doesn't have it. not fixing it here & now.

## What is this?

> [These organizations](about) are working together to define a common set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[A group of organizations](about) are working together to define a common set of
```

> annotation types for use in Java static analysis, beginning with nullness

Reviewer: Maybe we should be a little more explicit here about the fact that other domains are coming?

Author: It seems explicit about that to me.  Static analysis annotations, *starting with*.

What it doesn't hint at at all is the other things on wiki/long-term-roadmap.

analysis.

> This includes providing both the JAR file your code can depend on, and *precise*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This includes providing both a JAR file your code can depend on, and *precise*
```

specifications of these annotations' semantics.

* **Why standardize the annotations?** This tragic 
  [stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4963300/which-notnull-java-annotation-should-i-use)
  says it all.
* **Why standardize the semantics?** Because a library owner, or a team that

>   uses multiple tools, deserves a single source of truth telling them how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  uses multiple tools, deserves a single source of truth for how to
```

  annotate their code, instead of having to decide which tool to make happy.
* **Why do both together?** Because users deserve annotation types with
  Javadoc *right there* that answers their questions authoritatively.

Our release will be the *first* tool-neutral, library-neutral artifact for

> these annotations; the first to be developed by *consensus* of the major

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these annotations, and the first to be developed by *consensus* of the major
```

Author: What I have might not be right, but this doesn't seem like an "and" to me; the consensus is what makes it tool-neutral.

Reviewer: OK. What about:

> Our release will be the first tool-neutral, library-neutral artifact for these annotations; it is being developed by consensus of the major stakeholders.

> stakeholders. (Note: `javax.annotation` was an aborted attempt that never

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stakeholders. (Note: `javax.annotation` was an aborted attempt that was never
```

actually released, whose draft work was jammed into Maven anyway.)

Learn more about the JSpecify group and its goals in the [JSpecify
FAQ](http://github.com/jspecify/jspecify/wiki/jspecify-faq).

## How do I learn about your nullness support?

As you read, if you ever think "that's weird, why did they do that?", have a
look at the [Nullness Design

> FAQ](https://github.com/jspecify/jspecify/wiki/nullness-design-FAQ); your

Reviewer: Suggestion: Reference links will make this kind of source easier to read instead of wrapped labels.

Author: meant to get to that, will do.

question might be answered.

### Start with one of

* The [Javadoc](/docs/api/org/jspecify/annotations/package-summary.html),
  which is reasonably thorough and specific, though not an organized walkthrough
* The current [User Guide draft](/docs/user-guide), which is a better choice
  for reading top-to-bottom, but is currently a bit outdated and in need of
  improvement.  It will change quite a bit before 1.0.

### Then if you're *really* interested

* The [specification](/docs/spec), written for owners of static analyzers, and
  currently outdated
* Various informal and non-normative articles on our
  [wiki](https://github.com/jspecify/jspecify/wiki)
* [Open issues](https://github.com/jspecify/jspecify/issues), although these are

>   sometimes terrifying

Reviewer: LOL but maybe choose a different word.

Author: impenetrable?
What kind of terse warning do you think is called for?

Reviewer: What about this?

> ...although some of these contain very long discussions that may not be worth your time.

* Or try it out

## How do I try it out?

> * For now, we'd suggest holding tight. The previous section will keep you busy!

Reviewer: I feel like these would work better as paragraphs than bullets (the outer list).

Author: As you know, I never met a bullet list I didn't love. But I seem to remember there's some ~science behind it too?

Basically we have four items with parallel structure. Paragraphs have no expectation of parallel structure, and we could expect future edits to break it.

* Once we release version **0.3** (goal: end of 2022):

>    * You can start using the annotations, IF you accept the **very real risk of

Reviewer: You've got **bold**, *italics*, and now also CAPS?

Why no ~~strikethru~~????

Author: Good point, I'll find something to cross out

De-italicizing and de-quoting are explicit passes I have to make after I write, and caps just happens sometimes, I can't control it. Actually "IF" is probably the word I do it to more than the rest combined. Yes yes yes will fix.

     future changes**. Be extremely cautious about using them in a released
     *library*.
   * However, your tools won't support the correct semantics yet; all you can do

>      is add our package name onto the long list of annotations it recognizes,

Reviewer: Do we know that all tools support this?

Author: I can't imagine it being remotely viable in the Java world otherwise. Also I think it's okay to be mildly conjectural in this kind of writing.

     and it will treat them the same as the rest, until it releases fuller
     support for our specifications.
* When our **reference implementation** is ready, you'll be able to validate
  your usages of the annotations against our defined semantics. This is when you
  will really get to find out how helpful or annoying our current design choices
  are for you, and we'll be glad to hear about it. This checker is not quite
  ready for prime time yet, however.
* **1.0** will commit **permanently** to the annotation APIs, and they will be
  safe to depend on. From that point, further specification changes will not
  break null-checking for you or your clients except to improve very rare
  corner cases. We have no prediction for when this release will be. We hope to
  get as much of your feedback as we can before then.

## How can I get involved?

Great question.

It is **not too late** for your input to matter. It's true we've been working on

> this a long time (since 2018), but it's all been groundwork, and none of it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this for a long time (since 2018), but it's all been groundwork, and none of it is
```

> this a long time (since 2018), but it's all been groundwork, and none of it is

Reviewer: What do you mean by "groundwork"?

Author: Well, https://www.google.com/search?q=%22laying+the+groundwork%22
But you're suggesting not enough readers will understand.

Reviewer: I know "laying the groundwork", but I think that's a fixed idiom, like "kick the bucket". You can't just refer to a bucket and have it clearly mean part of the same thing. IMO

> absolutely set in stone except our package and artifact names.

Reviewer: Has the package name change landed yet?

Author: Well, we didn't cut the -rc2 yet, but I think it's okay....

> * Join our new [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/g/jspecify-discuss).

Author: I just didn't want there to be any confusion at why it's so empty.  Atm I think it's completely empty.
